Ticketing System Usage Documentation:

    Table of Contents:
        1.  About
            1.1  Ticket Options
        2.  Opening a Ticket
            2.1  Web Interface
            2.2  Email
        3.  Updating a ticket
            3.1  Web Interface
            3.2  Email
        4.  Creating an Outage Summary
        5.  Conclusion

1.  About

    This Application was written to fulfill the need of a trouble
    ticket / bug tracking system.  It features the ability to assign
    multiple "options" on each ticket as well as multiple ways to
    interface with the system itself.

    1.1 Ticket Options

        Some of the "ticket" options that may be set are:
        Project:    This option defines what "project" or system the
                    ticket is in relation to.  For example, in a web
                    hosting environment, you would set this to:
                        customerwebsite1.com
                    provided "customerwebsite1.com" has been identified
                    as "Project" in the `projects` table.

        Category:
                    Let's you set what "category" you want the ticket to
                    be assigned.

                    The preconfigured "categories" are:
                        Outage
                        General
                        Bug
                        Feature Request
                        Investigation
        
        Status:
                    Defined as what "State" the ticket exists as.  Some
                    examples of Statuses would be:
                        Open
                        Pending
                        Delegated
                        Need More Info
                        Closed
                        Resolved
                        etc....

        Owner:
                    You can set who currently "owns" the ticket by
                    selected a person from this option list.  The list
                    is defined by who exists in your user group and
                    what user groups are allowed to access/modify the
                    ticket, based on pre-defined ACLs.

                    Note:  ACLs are defined in the ticket system
                    administration section.

        Priority:
                    Sets the "Priority" of the open ticket.  Priorities
                    are defined in the `priorities` table in the
                    database and can be administered through the Tickets
                    Administration interface.

        Title/Short Description:
                    This is the "short description"or "title" of the
                    open ticket.  It is important for this field to
                    provide as much information about the ticket as
                    possible in as short of a description as possible.

                    An Example of a ticket title would be:
                        "The Portal is down"

        Long Description:
                    This is the expanded or "long description".  This
                    field can be used to store static content about the
                    ticket.  For instance, if "The Portal is Down" was
                    the Title/Short Desc., you would put something in
                    this field like:

                        "The Java processes are running at the maximum
                        allowed file descriptors.  This was found by
                        running:
                          $ pfiles <java pid>

                        Also, the portal log files were complaining of
                        'too many open files'".

        Ticket Notes/Modications:
                    This is where you would outline what troubleshooting
                    steps were taking while working on the issue, or to
                    let someone know that it is "being worked" on.  

        Outage Summaries:
                    By selecting the "Create Outage Summary" box, and
                    clicking the "Save Trouble Ticket" button, you will
                    be taken to a new form table that allows you to
                    build an outage summary and email it to a predefined
                    list of users (a comma seperated list defined in the
                    'notify' field of the `projects` table.

                    Note:  The notify list can be modified in the
                    "Modify/Delete projects" section of the Ticket
                    Administration section.


2.  Opening a ticket
    2.1 Web Interface

        - To open a ticket, login to the ticketing system and select the:
        "Tickets: Add New" link in the "Ticket Administration" block.

        - Select which "Project" the ticket will be associated with

        - Select the Category

        - Select the Priority

        - Select who the ticket will be assigned to upon opening.

        - Provide the Title/Short Description

        - Provide the Long Description of the problem.

        - Select the "Submit Trouble Ticket" button.

        This will submit/open the ticket in the system.

    2.2 Email Interface

        - Send an email to the predefined "Ticket Mailbox - Email
          Address" with the "Title/Short Description" in the Subject
          field.

        - The Body of the message should look something like the
          following:

            Priority: High
            Service:  Portal

            "You long description text.  This should be very
            descriptive".

          Note:  Service is defined as the "Project" name.  So, if you
          have a "project" named "customerwebsite1.com", this is what
          you would put in the "Service:" description in the email.

        - An email should be returned to you with the status of your
          submitted email ticket.  It should include the ticket number
          and what action was taken with the email.

3.  Updating a ticket
    3.1 Web Interface

        To update a ticket through the web interface, you will have to
        know what ticket number the ticket is saved as, or use the
        "Search" utility to find the ticket.

        Once found, select the ticket and you will be taken to a
        "Tickets:Edit" screen.  It is in this screen that you can modify
        any part of the ticket sans "Creator" and "Date Added".  Please
        reference the "Ticket Options" section for a list of what the
        options mean.

    3.2 Email

        By updating a ticket via email, you will be limited to adding
        "Notes" to the ticket.  You will need to either respond to your
        "open ticket" notification or define the ticket number in the
        Subject field of your email.  For example:

            Subject:  Trouble Tickets:  Update Notification [#1]

            Body:
                I would like to know the status of this ticket... Where
                are we at with the troubleshooting of the issue?

        It is imperitive that the ticket number be referenced as it is
        above.  ex.  [#100]

4.  Creating an Outage Summary

    Currently, the only method of creating an outage summary is through
    the web-interface.  There will eventually be a "guest" interface
    that users would be provided with the same "outage summary" form,
    but would need to input the ticket number so it will be placed in
    the `osummaries` table.

    In the outage summary form, you will define the following:

        Subject:            This will be pre-populated with the Ticket's
                            Title/Short Description, but can be
                            overridden
        
        Severity:           This will be pre-defined by the "Priority"
                            of the ticket, but can be overridden.

        Start Time:         Please make sure this exists before the "End
                            Time" as it *WILL* generate a negative
                            number.

        End Time:           The ending time of the outage.  Should take
                            place after the start time.  (See a pattern
                            here?)
                            
        Customer Per Min.:  This is the number of customers affected per
                            minute.  This will be multiplied by the
                            "duration" (calculated by subtracting "End
                            Time" from "Start Time" to come up with the
                            "Total Customer Count"

        Root Cause:         Pretty self explanatory.  This is what was
                            determine to have caused the ticket to be
                            opened in the first place.

        Resolution:         A brief description of how the issue was
                            resolved

        Extra Information:  This is a pretty generic field.  You would
                            put anything in this field that you would
                            not want emailed along with the Outage
                            Summary.  For example:
                                "We found about this issue from the
                                <insert tool name here> monitoring
                                tool".

5.  Conclusion

    If you have any questions about this system or how to use it, please
    contact myself at:  mike.mcmurray@verizon.com and I will get back to
    you as soon as possible with the answer (if I can answer it).

-- The End.
